# RF-BASED-DRONE-SURVEILLANCE-SYSTEM-USING-WAVELET-SCATTERING-TRANSFORM

This is my graduation thesis, and it focus on the use of Wavelet scattering transform (WST) for RF signals's feature extraction and use these features as inputs of classic Machine Learning algorithm: Random Forest and Tree bagging for Drone classification and I also propose an optimized solution for real-time hardware. I use DroneRF dataset that is documented in "*DroneRF dataset: A dataset of drones for RF-based detection, classification and identification*". I will outline main parts in my thesis:
1. Dataset is divided into two types of RF signals: 0-40 MHz and 40-80 MHz. I use WST and ML algorithm for each types and use a decision-making system to decide final prediction.
2. RF signals from dataset is IF signals which have 10e6 samples. In order to balance global and local features, I use WST for each chunk of the signal that is 2.5e6 in length. After that, I combine results of transform and it becomes feature vector for one signal.
3. There are 3 tasks: Drone detection, drone classification and drone operation classification. Two first tasks have large enough to use Random Forest as classifier, but drone operation task has lack of data because there are much more classes, so I use Tree Bagging for maximum information that can be learned. (the reason I use Random Forest is that I try some algorithms and this is the best).
4. We have two models, and in order to decide which classification is correct, I use confidence score. It is a simple thought: both 0-40 MHz and 40-80 MHz carry information about the drone, so 40-80 MHz signals may capture features that 0-40 MHz signals can't and vice versa. Which prediction that has higher score, it will be a final decision. But we may face over-confident problem, and I address that by using weight for each scores.
5. Complexity of model mostly causes by WST. In GTX 1660Ti, it takes 8 seconds to complete. So this is a little bit long while Drone classification usually need real-time prediction. But I think this is only soft constraint and it's not neccessary 1ms or faster. I think less than 1 second is enough. And my approach is that using Looked-up tables that store pre-caculation of FFT, mother Wavelet function, etc.
